Brioche dough (classic)
Soften 225 g  butter at room temperature. Crumble 7 g  fresh (compressed) yeast and stir in 1 tablespoon warm water. In a
separate container stir 1 tablespoon sugar and a pinch of salt into 2 tablespoons
cold milk. Sift 250 g  strong plain (bread) flour, make
a well in the centre, and add the yeast mixture and 1 lightly beaten egg. After
working in a little flour, add the sugar and salt mixture, and another lightly
beaten egg. Continue to work the dough until it becomes smooth and elastic.
It should stretch easily. Mix a third ofthe dough with the softened butter, then
add the second and finally the remaining third of the dough to the mixture.
Put the dough in a 2 litre container, cover with a cloth,
and leave to rise in a warm place until it has doubled in volume. Then separate
the dough into 3 pieces, knead hghtly and leave to rIse again. Leave to rest for
a few hours in a cool place: the dough is now ready to be shaped and baked.
• standard bnoche dough: this IS prepared in exactly the same way, but the
quantIty of butter is reduced to 175 g .
• pate levee pour tartes: this yeasted brioche dough is used for tarts and flans.
Prepare as for brioche dough, but use 250 g  plain (allpurpose)
flour, 7 g  fresh (compressed) yeast, '12 teaspoon
salt, 2 teaspoons caster (superfine) sugar, 2 eggs, lOO g  butter
and 6 tablespoons milk.

Flaky pastry
Mix 75 g  butter with 75 g  lard or white vegetable
fat (shortening) by chopping both types of fat together in a basin. Divide into
quarters and chill well. Rub a quarter ofthe mixed fat into 225 g 
plain (all-purpose) flour, then mix in 7-8 tablespoons cold water to make a
soft dough.
Knead the dough lightly on a lightly floured surface, then roll it out into
a long rectangle measuring about 15 X 35 cm . Mark the pastry
across into thirds. Dot another quarter of the prepared fat in lumps over the
top two thirds of the pastry. Fold the bottom third over the fat on the middle
third, then fold the top third down on top of it. Press the edges of the pastry
together and give the pastry a quarter turn in a clockwise direction. Chill the
pastry for 15 minutes, then roll it out as before and dot with another portion
of fat. Fold and chill the pastry for 30 minutes. Repeat the rolling and folding
twice more - once with the remaining portion of fat and once without
any additional fat. Chill the pastry in the refrigerator for 15-30 minutes
between each rolling out and at the end, before finally rolling it out and using
as required.


Lining pastry (pate afoncer)
This is a lining pastry for flans and tarts; it is a basic shortcrust made by the
French method. Sift 250 g  plain (all-purpose) flour on to a
board. Make a well in the centre and add 112 teaspoon salt and 125 g  butter (softened at room temperature and cut into pieces). Start to
mix the ingredients and then add 2 tablespoons water (the quantity of water
required may vary depending on the type of flour used). Knead the dough
gently, using the heel of the hand, shape it into a ball, wrap it in foil and set
aside in a cool place for at least 2 hours if possible.
For a richer pastry increase the quantity of butter to 150 g 
and add 1 small egg and 2 tablespoons caster (superfine) sugar.

Pate sablee
This is a rich, sweetened short pastry, flavoured with vanilla and used for
sweet flans and tarts. Sift 250 g  plain (all-pupose) flour.
Cream 125 g  butter. Quickly mix the flour and butter by hand,
draw the mixture together and make a well in the centre. Add 1 egg,
125 g  caster (superfine) sugar and a few drops of vanilla
essence (extract). Quickly blend the ingredients together, roll the pastry into
a ball and chill for 1 hour.
Alternatively, the pastry can be made by first mixing the egg and sugar,
then rubbing in the flour, and finally kneading in the butter.


Pate sucree
Heap together 250 g  plain (all-purpose) flour, a pinch of salt
and 75 g  caster (superfine) sugar and make a well in the centre.
Put 1 large egg (or 2 small ones), 100 g softened butter and
1.5 teaspoons orange- flower water in the middle of the well and work all the
ingredients together, drawing the flour into the centre. Knead the dough
quickly and gently with the heel of the hand, form it into a ball, cover and
keep cool until required.

Puff pastry
The preparation of puff pastry is a lengthy and complicated procedure in
which butter is incorporated into rolled-out dough. The dough is then
folded, turned at right angles, rolled and folded again, up to 8 times.
Put 500 g plain (all-purpose) flour on a board in a circle,
making a well in the middle. Since flours differ, the exact proportion of water
to flour is variable. Into the centre of this circle put 1.5 teaspoons salt and
about 300 ml water. Mix and knead until the dough is
smooth and elastic. Form into a ball and leave to stand for 25 minutes.
Roll out the dough into square, mark a cross in the top and roll out the
wedges to form an evenly thick cross shape. Put 500 g 
softened butter in the middle of this dough. (The butter should be softened
with a wooden spatula until it can be spread easily.) Fold the ends of the
dough over the butter in such a way as to enclose it completely. Leave to stand
for 10 minutes in a cold place, until rested and firmed slightly.
The turning operation can now begin. Roll the dough with a rolling pin
on a lightly floured board to obtain a rectangle 60 cm (24 in) long, 20 cm
wide and 1.5 cm (Sfs in) thick. Fold the rectangle into three, give it a
quarter-turn and, with the rolling pin at right angles to the folds, roll the
dough out again into a rectangle of the same size as the previous one. Again
fold the dough into three and leave to stand for about 15 minutes and chill if
too sticky. Repeat the sequence (turn, roll, fold) a further 4 times, leaving the
dough to stand for about 15 minutes after each folding. After the sixth turn,
roll out the dough in both directions and use according to the recipe.

Shortcrust pastry
Sift 225 g  plain (all-purpose) flour into a bowl and stir in a
pinch of salt, if required. Add 50 g  chilled butter and 50 g  chilled lard or white vegetable fat (shortening). Cut the fat into small
pieces, then lightly rub them into the flour until the mixture resembles
breadcrumbs. Sprinkle 3 tablespoons cold water over the mixture, then use a
roundbladed knife to mix it in. The mixture should form clumps: press these
together into a smooth ball. Chill the pastry for 30 minutes before baking.
Roll out and use as required.

Puff pastry 2
Makes 800g pastry Refrigeration time: 6 hours.
350g plain flour
35g butter, at room temperature + 250g cold butter
1,5 teaspoons of salt
130ml water

SWEET DOUGH
Makes 250g dough
1 egg (55g)
40g icing sugar
2 tablespoons ground almonds
0,5g of salt
110g plain flour
60g butter

CHOUX PASTRY
Makes 500g pastry
150ml milk
100ml water
1 level teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon caster sugar
100g butter
135g plain flour
4 eggs

GENOESE SPONGE CAKE
Makes a 500g cake
eggs
140g caster sugar
40g butter
140g plain flour

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE
180g plain flour
30g cocoa powder
11g baking powder
6 eggs
100g butter
100g caster sugar
7.5g vanilla sugar

Ciabatta
biga:
350g Flour
180g Water (180ml)
½ level teaspoon Fresh yeast
dough
450g Strong white or Italian bread flour
10g Yeast
340g Water (340ml)
50g Olive or avocado oil (50ml)
15g Salt

